And I won't name the specific organization. But
they have been given money, and a portion of that
money to John,
but really
not to
John, but to John's operation that he has a little
outfit over there, which is really for the
secondary high school students, called Defense
Studies. And so, really, the money is really for
his office costs, and the cost of Kathy Brown, and
so on. John came
to the States,
and this was in 79, I guess. It was after the Senate
had been formed and was in operation, and we were
office members. Brian was. And he...
I went down
to the Houston department. We had a British army
colonel
who was also a research associate. John got off the
airplane, and although I had met him a couple of
times before, I didn't know him all that well, but
he was playing.
And
Cole Hensley told me as we came out of the airport,
got inside, and told me that John had discovered
that this outfit in Washington had put his
name
and resume on a proposal to the O.D. without his
approval. That, in John's parlance, is just
totally dishonest. So, on the way, on the way home
from Houston to Clarkville, John was sitting up
front with me, and it comes to the second lap. And
John, of course, he's just a geek. He's an
avid conversationalist, and his mind is so
active, it just leaps ahead. It wears me out to talk
with him. But uncharacteristically, in this, all
the way up here, he would talk animatedly for a
while, and then he'd lapse into a silence. And he
was obviously there. And he turned around to
Colonel Hemsworth and said, John,
I am really upset about that. Talking about it. And
that must have happened 60 times, I guess. Oh, he
was just a slacker. And so he came to Texas A&M. He
had breakfast with Colonel Hemsworth. Well,
in short, he had never seen
a university like Texas. And, of course, we, and
being a military historian, he was obviously
appreciative of the fact that it was a different
institution than it had been. I don't really know
what he saw
in the center, because we were very ill-formed at
that time. And I think that might have been
attractive to him, because I think he feels and
felt and feels very keenly about the need to train
bright young people to do so. And of course, he has
his own standards and his own methodology for
doing that. And so I think he saw here a chance to
help shape something that would fit the way he
thinks. It turns out that the philosophy
that we have and that he has are very similar. And I
guess we probably ought to be more charitable and
say that John's John's view as a real genuine
Soviet expert has colored
my view of how Soviet studies ought to be done.
There's no question about it. And so, yeah, I think
we have at least in part been shaped
by John. So he, so then he went back, on his way back
through
Washington, he walked to Illinois, and he said, I
want to work for the T.V. in Illinois. He said, I
want to work for Texas A&M. Well, it was a, it was an
incredible coup for us, you see. He was a guy with a
well-established reputation, and so he worked.
And
all of a sudden, all of his publications that he,
that he publishes in the United States came to us.
So, going on the Center for Strategic Technology
with John Erickson. And so, we were able to ride
John's coat tables into the Soviet research
group. And, now I don't, I should add, it has not, it
has been a somewhat stormy relationship John does
not
know the meaning of the word deadline.
The only time he worries about money is when he
doesn't have any. He's eccentric, difficult to
get along with. And so it's been a turbulent
relationship. John's reputation, although he
has
a reputation as a tremendous scholar, there are
other aspects of his
reputation that are not good. He is well known for
committing himself to go to a conference to
present a paper. I'm not sure of that. For making
commitments, and in defense of John, he will not
say no. And he and I now
have become close
enough friends where I can chastise him and say,
John, God damn it, you must learn to say no. It's
unfair for you to tell people you'll do something
and then not do it. Quite, quite. You're right,
Dick. And of course, it just... One thing's
hitting one ear and out the other. And... But, you
know, looking at the relationship on balance,
I think it has been a very positive
relationship for us. But there have been some
sponsors that because John has promised to
deliver and hasn't, that we get, you know, to some
extent we get tarred with that rush too. So while it
hasn't
been a totally positive
relationship, I think it's all very positive.
But he'll be here, hopefully, the setting's
coming over in October. And if it's not then, I'm
sure he'll be here by January. And I hope you get a
chance to meet him. He's incredible. As I say, I
think he has an understanding of the Soviet
military very, very well. It was
quite a job. Are there any other things you'd like
to add about T's? You've covered what your view is
of the world, the function of T's, what should be
and how it's changed. Are there any particular
memories you have of dealing with T's that you'd
like to add? No, I think I've probably related the
essence of them all. You know, it has been a
It's been, as far as I'm concerned, if Dick Thomas
has had any success in
this world, and whatever success lies ahead of me
yet,
that will be due
in large part to T.S., which is undoubted, and to
Harry Whitmore, and to Fred Benson, and to Skip
Ford. Skip and I may
have different
views, but we
agree on enough things, you know, that it'll go on.
We're embarked on a new program now aimed at trying
to get Texas A&M in a central position in this
renaissance of space that has occurred. And if
that If
we're successful there,
it will be because
of teams. I don't know that I could
add much more.
I wish that
TEAS had a little bit better relationship with the
research
foundation. I think they don't often appreciate
what a tremendous asset the foundation has. The
foundation's role has changed quite a lot over the
last 20 years. And a lot of people go, because
government research has changed a lot over the
last 20 years, just the
legal aspects
of a contract with the government is incredibly
more complex today than it was 20 years ago. And
other things like, you know, affirmative action
and all of that sort of thing that
administratively has to be taken toward the
foundation of that. So I'm not sure the T's, I don't
think the relationship between the T's and the
foundation Years past,
it used
to be like that. And now it's more like this. But I
hope that Tease can...
Two things that I hope for Tease, I guess.
Forgive
me if
I'm airing dirty linen here or washing dirty
linen. Not quite in public, but I guess almost. As
you're probably aware, back when Benson was both
dean and head of TEAS, there was a lot more
congruence in the operations of the College of
Engineering and
the
Engineering Experiment Station than there was
since Dr. Page came in. And again, you can't fault
what Dr. Page wanted to do. But he wanted the
College of Engineering to go in one direction, and
Dr. Porter wanted it to go in another direction. So
we're now in a position now, as a guy
who is principally teased, you know,
I don't,
it doesn't constrain my activities, but I know
from my colleagues in aerospace engineering and
in other departments that this dichotomy has
caused us unsure of hell, frankly, in the past five
years. Dr. Page wanted people
to publish in the scholarly journals. He saw his
primary mission as raising the scholarly
image of the College of the University, and God
knows you can't find that. However, when you have
500 faculty members, And you have guys that
haven't done that. It's sort of like a reprise on
the situation we had back, you know, in the early
60s, when we had department heads who were not
research oriented. Which is not to say they're not
good guys, you know, like Al Crump and the rest of
them. But they were just trying to do things that
those guys weren't
equipped to handle. And so,
Dr. Page wanted 500 faculty members to get in
lockstep doing published research, scholarly
research. And we have guys that were hired
principally to teach. They were hired because
they were great teachers, because they had a lot of
industrial experience. And preparing people for
industry is still, I think, a major
objective of the college. Skip Porter is a very
applied guy. He wants to say TEAS, again,
as you've probably been told, the Austin, that is
the state view of TEAS, is that of an economic
development agency. It is not an educational
function. A lot of people don't realize that.
Well, that says Tease is going to do not
necessarily a whole bunch of scholarly research.
And given Dr. Porter's industrial experience and
having spent time at TI and so forth, why, he has a
different view of the world than Dr. Page has. Here
are these poor faculty members, and they don't
know which guy to follow. And Page controls their
promotion and tenure, and Dr. Porter controls the
seed money for their research.
We have 16 open positions in the Department of
Electrical Engineering. Sixteen! Now you know
why.
That's going
to change. The new super dean, whoever he is,
hopefully
will weld this thing back together into the unit it
once was under Mr. Benson. When I came here and was a
department member in aerospace engineering,
there was no difference
between what I, what, what Tease wanted me to do and
what the department wanted me
to do. They were exactly congruent. And that's why
it was such a beautiful, beautiful set. Now it's
not. And somehow, someway, we've got to get back to
that. And This is not oral history, I guess. Well,
it will be. Pardon me? It will be. Well, hopefully
sometime. It'll be interesting to see how it turns
out, whether or not either or not. You know, maybe
it's irreversible. I mean, maybe
we can't get back to London. I don't know. All I can
say is that the relationship between Pease and the
College of Engineering today is not what it was
five years
ago. And I don't know, you know, maybe if you look at
the, if you look at the legislation that set up TEAS
back in 2014, was it? As Dr. Porter said, we are the
Texas Engineering Experiment Station. We are not
the Texas A&M Experiment Station. And that's, you
know, that says volumes. We are, TEAS is here to
serve the state. Well, I don't know. It may never
ever be like it was before.
Quite like it was. I kind of hope it will be because I
think TEAS, has been and can be the way by
which we can get the right young
people in here. And, I mean, if you, you know, if
we're in a situation where TEAS is like Southwest
Research Institute or Mattel or, you know, going
off its own very way, sort of, maybe housed here on
the Texas A&M campus, but really having very
little to do with Texas A&M as such, or relatively
little to do, then the College of Engineering is
going to be like Georgia Tech was with me. They're
not going to have any money to work with. And when a
young guy comes in and says, well, do you have money
for promoting research? They'll say, yeah, you
can take that out of your research money, like
Georgia Tech told me. And that ain't going to fly.
That's not going to watch. So TEAS has been,
I think, an enormous contributor to the growth of
the university. I
think
unquestionably the fact that we have the largest
college of engineering in the country here is due
to TEAS. It's due, and TEAS has supported the
evolution of the research program that has drawn
Texas A&M a tremendous amount of respect. Of
course, we've always had that very, very strong
undergraduate research program And young
people, I think, across the state of Texas still
perceive a degree in engineering from Texas A&M to
be a significant step up the ladder of success. I
think we're still, locally, that is within the
state, I think our undergraduate education
program is highly revered. And I don't want to
sacrifice that. I think we need to hang on to that.
So I don't want to tease
to do anything that would weaken
that image. I don't know. It seems to me that there
are people on up in the university who are prepared
to sacrifice
that in order to achieve greatness,
whatever that is, that we will become like MIT in
the sense of having a pedestrian undergraduate
program with a heavy focus on Nobel Prize winners
and scholarly publications and all kinds of
highfalutin research. I think we have to
remember that we are a land-grant institution. We
were established, like all other
land-grant schools, prior to the enactment of the
Morrill Act back in 1870 or thereabouts, higher
education was the province of the wealthy. And
unless you were
affluent, you just couldn't get a higher
education. And that's what the land grant schools
were intended to do, to bring education to the
masses. And I'll be damned if I see any need to turn
away from that. I don't feel badly. I mean, if I want
to be a highfalutin guy, I'll go to Caltech or MIT.
And I just don't understand why why some of our
administration
has to drive us away from that. How many MITs do we
need? I think one's enough, really.
So I think we have contributed greatly to the
state. I think that the T's unquestionably, T's
support and actions have undergirded the
contribution that we've made to the state of Texas
and to the nation. And I just,
I said maybe it is time to move on to some higher
plateau. Maybe this is what you're hearing is just
the bleeding of a guy who's out of it, whose views
are passe. That could well be, I suppose. Maybe I
long for the good old days.
Of course, they say you can never go back. Maybe
there is some sort of a new relationship
out there, a new framework in which T's can
function effectively. Could well be. But if that
means sacrificing what we
have accomplished in the past, if it means
destroying the strengths on which this
institution has been
built. I guess I'm reluctant
to do that. I don't see that it needs to be done. I
don't see why you have
to destroy something in order to achieve
something else. Maybe you have to, but I don't see
it. So I think TEAS has been an absolutely great
institution. in
terms of what it's done for the nation, for the
state, for the university,
and of course for Dick Thomas. I think that it may be
necessary to to change the road
that we're on, or the path that we're on again. And
we're going to continue to provide that kind of
support. Well, I don't know. Obviously, my
admiration and respect of T's is unbounded,
because I've been fortunate enough to have been a
part of it in its formative
years, shall we say, when it really grew and really
blossomed. I kind of wish that other institutions
could see what TEAS has done
for Texas A&M and for the state and could learn from
that. and
maybe replicate it in some form or other. Because I
think it can serve other states as well as it has
served Texas with the proper leadership.
And again, I'm not going to agree it's important.
It obviously has to have a... a good view of the kind
of contribution that
it can
make and the kind of strengths that it has to have to
make this contribution. So with proper
leadership, I think that TEAS and other states
could be as effective as it has been doing. Well,
thank you for all your time.